# exceptions

provide a systematic, object-oriented approach to handling errors generated by C++ classes. 
Exceptions are errors that occur at runtime. 
They are caused by a wide variety of exceptional circumstance, such as running out of
memory, not being able to open a file, trying to initialize an object to an impossible value, or
using an out-of-bounds index to a vector.

# Why Do We Need Exceptions?
  
  C-language programs often signal an error by returning a particular
value from the function in which it occurred.

One problem with this approach is that every single call to such a function must be examined
by the program. Surrounding each function call with an if...else statement.

The problem becomes more complex when classes are used, since errors may take place without a function being explicitly called. For example, suppose an application defines objects of a
class:
SomeClass obj1, obj2, obj3;
How will the application find out if an error occurred in the class constructor? The constructor
is called implicitly, so there’s no return value to be checked.

# ostream operator overloading?

   ostream& operator<<(ostream& out, Objects const& obj);

  **Output** streams use the insertion **(<<)** operator for standard types. You can also overload the  **<<**  operator for your own classes.
  ## Remarks
    
    The overloaded operator returns a reference to the original ostream object, which means you can combine insertions.<br>
    
    cout <<"The date is" <<dt <<flush;
    
    
    The (obj) can be copied (potentially). But what if it is expensive to copy.
    So best to pass it by reference to prevent an unnecessary copy.
    
    The (out) is of type std::ostream. This can not be copied (the copy constructor is disabled).
    So you need to pass by reference.
    
 ## Why istream/ostream functions(overloaded << and >>) are declared outside of a class in C++?
 
   In generale A function that doesn’t have to be member, don’t make it a member. If that function doesn’t alter the state of the object and only        uses public members of that object, write it outside the class as a non-member non-friend function.

   Hope this helps. Otherwise, add more details to your question.
    
 ## what() overloaded function?
 
     syntax: const char * what() const throw();
     its a virtaul function in exception class.
     (throw) at the end of function means : It means it won't throw any exceptions.
     This is an important guarantee for a function like what,
     is usually called in exception handling: you don't want another exception to be thrown while you're trying to handle one.
     
     Example of an exception: throw std::invalid_argument("error");
     
  ## What is meant with "const" at end of function declaration? 
  
  A "const function", denoted with the keyword const after a function declaration, makes it a compiler error for this class function to change a       member variable of the class. However, reading of a class variables is okay inside of the function, but writing inside of this function will         generate a compiler error.
    


